[Draft] How to contribute to AppFlowy (#77)
AppFlowy-IO/AppFlowy-Docs: essential-documentation/contribute-to-appflowy/write-for-appflowy/drafts/draft-how-to-contribute-to-appflowy.md

      <ul>
        <li><a href="#general-purpose-of-this-article">General Purpose of this Article</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#how-to-contribute-to-appflowy">How to Contribute to Appflowy</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#how-to-connect-with-the-team">How to Connect with the Team</a></li>
        <li><a href="#how-to-identify-and-solve-your-first-pr">How to identify and solve your first PR</a></li>
        <li><a href="#how-to-propose-new-features-and-changes-for-appflowy">How to propose new features for Appflowy (via GitHub Issues)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#an-example-on-how-to-handle-your-first-pr">An Example on how to handle your first PR</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#how-to-best-engage-with-the-community">How to best engage with the community</a></li>
    <li><a href="#links-to-resources-to-help-get-started-with-technical-contributions">Links to Resources to help get started with Technical Contributions</a></li>
    <li><a href="#other-initiatives-by-appflowy">Other Initiatives by Appflowy</a></li>
    <li><a href="#conclusion">Conclusion</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>

<!-- Introduction -->
## Introduction

> <p>Appflowy is a productivity tool that can be used to help individuals or teams accomplish tasks efficiently and effectively. It is open-source, which means that its code is freely available to all for development and customization! Whether you're an aspiring developer, a seasoned programmer, or someone with a genuine interest in technology, this guide is here to help you navigate the exciting world of open-source with Appflowy!</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p>Appflowy is a productivity tool that streamlines note taking and task management. It is open-source, which means that its code is available to everyone for development and customization! Whether you're an aspiring developer, a seasoned programmer, or someone genuinely interested in technology, this guide is here to help you navigate the exciting world of open-source with Appflowy!</p>
```

> <p>Hey there! In this article, we shall discuss how to contribute to Appflowy. Appflowy is a productivity tool that can be used to help individuals or teams accomplish tasks efficiently and effectively. It is open-source in nature, which means that it's code is freely available to all for developemnt and customization! Whether you're an aspiring developer, a seasoned programmer, or someone with a genuine interest in technology, this guide is here to help you navigate the exciting world of open-source with Appflowy!</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p>Appflowy is a productivity tool that can be used to help individuals or teams accomplish tasks efficiently and effectively. It is open-source, which means that it's code is freely available to all for development and customization! Whether you're an aspiring developer, a seasoned programmer, or someone with a genuine interest in technology, this guide is here to help you navigate the exciting world of open-source with Appflowy!</p>
```

### General Purpose of this Article

> <p>We will explore the ins and outs of contributing to Appflowy and provide you with practical tips on how to make your first contribution. We'll demystify the process, highlight the benefits, and equip you with the essential tools and resources to get started on your open-source journey with Appflowy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p>We will explore the process of contributing to Appflowy and provide practical tips on how to make your first contribution. We'll demystify the process, highlight the benefits, and equip you with the essential tools and resources to get started on your open-source journey with Appflowy.
```

Throughout this guide, we'll address common questions you may have, such as:

1. How to contribute to Appflowy?
2. How to connect with the team?
3. How to identify and solve your first Pull Request?
4. How to propose new features for Appflowy?
5. How to best engage with the community?
  
And many more. Let's dive in!</p>
<p align="right">(<a href="#introduction">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- How to Contribute -->
## How to Contribute to Appflowy

> <p>Appflowy is managed via GitHub, a popular Content Management/Version Control Application. You'll need a GitHub account to get started for the same. We recommend getting used to GitHub's features and functions, especially Git and GitHub Workflows, before starting with contributions.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p>Appflowy is managed via GitHub, a popular version control system. You'll need a GitHub account to get started. We recommend getting used to GitHub's features and functions, especially Git and GitHub Workflows, before starting with contributions.</p>
```

Reviewer: Could you write more about pull requests, reviews and filing issues.

### How to Connect with the Team
<p>The best ways to connect with the team are via Discord and GitHub. </p> 

1. Discord 
  - Create a Discord account and join the [Appflowy Community Server](https://discord.com/invite/9Q2xaN37tV). Don't be afraid to ask questions!

>   - Start by introducing yourself in the <b>Intro's</b> section. Read carefully through the <b>welcome</b> section to better abide by the server's rules and regulations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Start by introducing yourself in the <b>Intro's</b> section. Read carefully through the <b>welcome</b> section. You must abide by the server's rules and regulations.
```

>   - Create a Discord account, and join the [Appflowy Community Server](https://discord.com/invite/9Q2xaN37tV). The server is full of creative individuals from all over the world, who are always ready to help you out, so do not be afraid to ask questions!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Create a Discord account, and join the [Appflowy Community Server](https://discord.com/invite/9Q2xaN37tV), don't be afraid to ask questions!
```

>   - Have a look around! Feel free to ask any prevalent questions to any member of the Appflowy Team or Appflowy Contributor's by sending a message with a tag (<b>@AppFlowy Team </b>) for the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If you have any questions, tag the Appflowy Team or Appflowy Contributor's by sending a message with a tag (<b>@AppFlowy Team </b>) for the same.
```

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70965472/237025457-bf33e70d-8fbd-4bea-a25e-f1d0ea2147bf.png)
*Welcome Page - Appflowy Dicord Server*

2. GitHub  
  - You can get started via asking questions in the [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/AppFlowy-IO/AppFlowy/discussions) section of Appflowy.
  - GitHub Discussions provides a forum for Appflowy Contributor's to Ask questions, Share ideas, Engage with other community members and to subsequently Welcome others who join in down the road.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70965472/237032567-9d75b320-423e-4bc2-805d-7bcb7c96217c.png)
*The Appflowy Discussions page*

>    - You can navigate through the various categories made available, including announcements, ideas, polls, etc.

Reviewer: Is this specific to appflowy? If not, can we point them to a guide instead?

Author: This is specific to the GitHub Discussions page for Appflowy's main repository. I have added links to the Appflowy docs below, felt that it would be best to include it here as another means to connect with the community

Reviewer: Sounds good to me!

>    - Feel free to explore the [General Help Wanted](https://github.com/AppFlowy-IO/AppFlowy/discussions/categories/general-help-wanted) and [Technical Help Wanted](https://github.com/AppFlowy-IO/AppFlowy/discussions/categories/technical-help-wanted) Sections to check out some open projects within Appflowy that you can get started working on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The [General Help Wanted](https://github.com/AppFlowy-IO/AppFlowy/discussions/categories/general-help-wanted) and [Technical Help Wanted](https://github.com/AppFlowy-IO/AppFlowy/discussions/categories/technical-help-wanted) sections contain open projects for first time contributors.
```

   - Also, feel free to explore Appflowy's [6 Month Technical Roadmap](https://github.com/AppFlowy-IO/AppFlowy/discussions/1715), to gain a better understanding of Appflowy's current development goals over the course of the next 6 months.

3. Mail 
  - You can get in touch with the team via mail at [support@appflowy.io](support@appflowy.io).

### How to identify and solve your first PR

> <p>Contributions are made via Pull Requests (PR's). We recommend getting familiar with [GitHub Flow](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-flow) for the same. Once you're ready, you can begin looking for a PR to work on. A pre-cursor to this would also include setting up your development environment. You can find help for the same in Appflowy's documentation, made available [here](https://appflowy.gitbook.io/docs/essential-documentation/contribute-to-appflowy/software-contributions). The steps are as follows:</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p>Contributions are made via Pull Requests (PR's). We recommend getting familiar with [GitHub Flow](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-flow) and setting up your development environment. Now that you're ready, start looking for a PR to work on. If you need help getting started, look at Appflowy's [documentation](https://appflowy.gitbook.io/docs/essential-documentation/contribute-to-appflowy/software-contributions). The steps are as follows:</p>
```

Reviewer: Add link to setting up development environment page.

>   Step 1: Go to [Appflowy's repository](https://github.com/orgs/AppFlowy-IO/repositories) section in GitHub. Here you can see all of Appflowy's open-source repositories that can be contributed to. For the purposes of this article, we shall be looking for Issues within the main [Appflowy](https://github.com/AppFlowy-IO/AppFlowy) repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Step 1: Go to [Appflowy's repository](https://github.com/orgs/AppFlowy-IO/repositories) section in GitHub. This is a list of all of Appflowy's repositories open for contributions. For the purposes of this article, we shall be looking for Issues within the main [Appflowy](https://github.com/AppFlowy-IO/AppFlowy) repository.
```

> <p>Contributions are made via Pull Requests (PR's). We recommend getting familiar with [GitHub Flow](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-flow) for the same. Once you're ready, you can begin looking for a PR to work on. A pre-cursor to this would also include setting up your developemet environment. You can find help for the same in Appflowy's Documentation, made available [here](https://appflowy.gitbook.io/docs/essential-documentation/contribute-to-appflowy/software-contributions). The steps are as follows:</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p>Contributions are made via Pull Requests (PR's). We recommend getting familiar with [GitHub Flow](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-flow) for the same. Once you're ready, you can begin looking for a PR to work on. A pre-cursor to this would also include setting up your development environment. You can find help for the same in Appflowy's Documentation, made available [here](https://appflowy.gitbook.io/docs/essential-documentation/contribute-to-appflowy/software-contributions). The steps are as follows:</p>
```

  *Label subsection within Issues*
  
  Step 4: Here, you can go through a list of Issues that can be worked on. They're fairly straightforward and can help you get accustomed to the developement environment as well as the codebase. Feel free to ask anyone from the Appflowy Team for suggestions, as well as to assign you to an Issue.
  
  ![image](https://github.com/JRS296/AppFlowy-Docs/assets/70965472/e1022103-e98e-42b5-a43d-03f5c5b08f04)
  *Label subsection within Issues*
  
  <p> Issues are generally categorized into either <b>Feature [FR]</b> or <b>Bugs [Bug]</b>. You can proceed to have a look at the description provided for the given issue. Send a message down in comments section to get the issue assigned to yourself. Once that's done, you are ready to begin coding!</p>
  
  ![image](https://github.com/JRS296/AppFlowy-Docs/assets/70965472/a0c1479d-8c1b-4af8-a766-dbff8ab6c3d4)
  *An example of an issue that can be worked on. Remember to message the maintainers first!*
  
  <p> As mentioned before, we expect you to go about contributions using the [GitHub Flow](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-flow) way. That involves some standard steps: </p>
  

> 1. Creating your own branch, either within a forked repository (recommended), or directly within the Appflowy Repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Creating your own branch, within your forked repository.
```

Reviewer: Avoid mentioning PRs from an unforked repository.

Author: Alright 👍

> 2. Setting up your developemnt environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Setting up your development environment.
```

> 2. Setting up your developemnt environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Setting up your development environment.
```

8. Merging your branch, and subsequent deletion of the branch once Merge is successfully completed.

<p>These are the steps required to hande your first PR.</p>

### How to propose new features and changes for Appflowy
<p>Congratulations on completing your first PR! We're sure this is the first of many contributions from you! As Appflowy is Open Source in Nature, it also means that anyone and everyone is free to make recommendations and changes that can help improve Appflowy. If you have any ideas on how to go about doing the same, you can propose them via GitHub Issues. Let us see how:</p>

Step 1: Go to the [Appflowy's repository](https://github.com/orgs/AppFlowy-IO/repositories) section in GitHub. Here you can see all of Appflowy's Open-Source repositories that can be contributed to. For the purposes of this article, we shall be looking at the main [Appflowy](https://github.com/AppFlowy-IO/AppFlowy) repository.
Step 2: Click on the <b>New Issue</b> section of the repository. The subsequent page should look something like this:

![image](https://github.com/JRS296/AppFlowy-Docs/assets/70965472/6d1b1efd-eb69-4083-a098-6f9e4117e11c)
*Create New Issues Page*

> Step 3: Here, you can choose either to propose a Feature change, or address a Bug. For the purpose of this article, we shall choose the Create new Feature option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Step 3: Here, you can choose either to propose a feature change, or address a bug. For the purpose of this article, we shall choose the "Create New Feature" option.
```

> Step 3: Here, you can choose either to propose a Feature change, or address a Bug. For the purpose of this article, we shall choose the Create new Feature option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Step 3: Here, you can choose either to propose a feature change, or address a bug. For the purpose of this article, we shall choose the "Create New Feature" option.
```

Step 4: On entering the type of issue, you will be redirected to a "Feature Request" form. Fill in all the fields, including the title, a detailed description of what the feature aims to do, its potential impact, and any other additional context needed to better understand the proposed feature. 
Step 5: Click submit, and you're done!

![image](https://github.com/JRS296/AppFlowy-Docs/assets/70965472/cbccc006-7b10-47a8-886c-828352c67319)
*Feature Submit Form*

> <p>Congratulations! You now know how to submit a feature through the issues tab available on GitHub.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p>Congratulations on submitting your first feature!</p>
```

> Step 4: On entering the type of issue, you will be redirected to a Feature Request form. Fill in all the fields, including the title, a detailed description of what the feature aims to do, its potential impact, and any other additional context needed to better understand the proposed feature. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Step 4: On entering the type of issue, you will be redirected to a "Feature Request" form. Fill in all the fields, including the title, a detailed description of what the feature aims to do, its potential impact, and any other additional context needed to better understand the proposed feature. 
```

> # \[Draft] How to contribute to AppFlowy

Reviewer: Can you run through the title sections of this article with a title case tool? I believe that some of the titles do not have grammatically correct capitalization.

https://capitalizemytitle.com/

Author: Sure 👍

      <ul>
        <li><a href="#general-purpose-of-this-article">General Purpose of this Article</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#how-to-contribute-to-appflowy">How to Contribute to Appflowy</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#how-to-connect-with-the-team">How to Connect with the Team</a></li>
        <li><a href="#how-to-identify-and-solve-your-first-pr">How to identify and solve your first PR</a></li>
        <li><a href="#how-to-propose-new-features-and-changes-for-appflowy">How to propose new features for Appflowy (via GitHub Issues)</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#an-example-on-how-to-handle-your-first-pr">An Example on how to handle your first PR</a></li>
    <li><a href="#how-to-best-engage-with-the-community">How to best engage with the community</a></li>
    <li><a href="#links-to-resources-to-help-get-started-with-technical-contributions">Links to Resources to help get started with Technical Contributions</a></li>
    <li><a href="#other-initiatives-by-appflowy">Other Initiatives by Appflowy</a></li>
    <li><a href="#conclusion">Conclusion</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>

<!-- Introduction -->
## Introduction

> <p>Appflowy is a productivity tool that streamlines note taking and task management. It is open-source, which means that its code is available to everyone for development and customization! Whether you're an aspiring developer, a seasoned programmer, or someone genuinely interested in technology, this guide is here to help you navigate the exciting world of open-source with Appflowy!</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p>Appflowy is a productivity tool that streamlines note taking and task management. It is open-source, which means that its code is available to everyone for development and customization!</p>
```

I understand that we want to be welcoming to the readers of this article, but I'd remove this content as it is not on topic.

### General Purpose of this Article
<p>We will explore the process of contributing to Appflowy and provide practical tips on how to make your first contribution. We'll demystify the process, highlight the benefits, and equip you with the essential tools and resources to get started on your open-source journey with Appflowy.

Throughout this guide, we'll address common questions you may have, such as:

1. How do I contribute to Appflowy?
2. How do I connect with the team?
3. How do I identify and solve my first Pull Request?
4. How do I propose new features for Appflowy?
5. How can I best engage with the community?
  

> And many more. Let's dive in!</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's dive in!</p>
```

  
  ![image](https://github.com/JRS296/AppFlowy-Docs/assets/70965472/a0c1479d-8c1b-4af8-a766-dbff8ab6c3d4)
  *An example of an issue that can be worked on. Remember to message the maintainers first!*
  
  <p> As mentioned before, we expect you to go about making contributions using the <a href="https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-flow">GitHub Flow</a> way. That involves some standard steps: </p>
  
1. Creating your own branch within your forked repository
2. Setting up your development environment
3. Making changes to the codebase, in accordance with the requirements and tasks present in the Issue that you have chosen to work on
4. Pushing the changes to your branch, and creating a Pull Request for the same
5. Having a code review for the same, making further changes
6. Passing all the automated tests put in place
7. Handling merge conflicts
8. Merging your branch, and subsequent deletion of the branch once Merge is successfully completed

<p>These are the steps required to handle your first PR.</p>

### How to propose new features and changes for Appflowy

> <p>Congratulations on completing your first PR! We're sure this is the first of many contributions from you! As Appflowy is Open Source in nature, it also means that anyone and everyone is free to make recommendations and changes that can help improve Appflowy. If you have any ideas on how to go about doing the same, you can propose them via GitHub Issues. Let us see how:</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p>Congratulations on completing your first PR! 

Now let's explore how you can propose your ideas for improving AppFlowy with a GitHub Issues walkthrough:</p>
```

### Why I decided to contribute to Appflowy

<p> My first contribution for Appflowy came during the GitHub Octernship season. I had heard about the GitHub Octernships through a promotional video that I had found on YouTube. Considering how similar it was to GSOC and other Open-Source iniatives, I was interested to try it out. I registered for the event, and after carefull consideration, decided to choose Appflowy as one of my 4 entries. The initial appeal of Appflowy was clear, it was a productivity tool suite, competing with heavyweights like Notion and Todoist, and most importantly, was Open-Source in nature. That meant a 3rd year Junior like myself could have a shot at development experience, without much hassle. Appflowy is built out of Flutter and Rust, which were completely new to me. But considering the pros of the Octernship program, I decided to enroll anyway. I joined the Appflowy Discord Server, introduced myself, and quickly got down to completing the assignment. This brought me to handling a PR for any first-time issue for Junior Dev's. This was a compulsory part of the Octernship application, which officially started my Open-Source journey with Appflowy. </p>

> ### How I went about searching for a first time issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Searching for my first issue
```

![image](https://github.com/JRS296/AppFlowy-Docs/assets/70965472/919bfd67-9e32-427e-b817-1ea72c06b0e2)
*An Example of an Issue created to help gain feedback from the community on how to best tackle it*

- Asking on Discord - you may do so on the <b>flutter-101</b> and <b>rust-101</b> channels.

<p> Following these steps helped me successfully fix the issue that I was facing. Also, always document everything that occurs during the lifecycle of an issue resolution within your Issue and PR. These serve well for future contributors who might encounter the same issue down the road. </p>

<p> With the environment up and running, it was down to make the changes needed to fullfill the task at hand. I added the function required, tested it manually in my local environment, and pushed the ensuing commit into my forked repository's branch. I then created a pull request for the same and awaited my first code review. </p>

> ### How I went about clarifying doubts with the maintainers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Clarifying doubts with maintainers
```
Since it's a title, make it concise :)
